+++
title = '20250213_0004'
date = 2025-02-13T13:11:19+07:00
draft = true
+++

Three reasons to do bugfix/feature addition by yourself instead of fully relying on AI editor/plugin.

1. Safety, despite of enormous manpower to filter training data, there are still some possibilities of LLM hallucination. Later on, it's possible for adversaries to exploit the hallucination to inject malicious packages based on the hallucination (https://darktrace.com/blog/when-hallucinations-become-reality-an-exploration-of-ai-package-hallucination-attacks). 

Now imagine those possible attack vector matched with auto approval in Cline, or Composer in Cursor. Without you realize it, you could introduce a 0-click RCE attack voluntarily executed in your machine. 

2. For mass editing several files, AI surprisingly could took lots of credit (or quota, if you use a AaaS), since most AI-powered do their edit in per-file basis, hence feature addition involving lots of file would correspond to lots of API calls, and in return, lots of credit usage as well.

I used Cline + Anthropic for my AI-gen needs, and trying to introduce some simple feature request in a simple NextJS app could cost me tens of API calls, both using 0.02 - 0.03 USD at minimum. With lots of files and complexity involved, those calls could be inflated to hundreds of calls, and pair those with auto-approval and boom, your credit would be exhausted in no time just because you requested a color change.

Maybe you ask, "If it's just a bugfix issue, then just use an AaaS that would cover the bugfix for free!", and then I should say, although some AaaS like v0 or Lovable would cover bugfix for free, editing files for adding or editing feature still counts as a billable API calls, and we're back on the same dilemma.

3. Skill and dependencies. Now while using AI is really convenient, with a full codebase could be generated with just typing some sentences, it could introduce one fatal issue; our developer brain would be left unused.

Now imagine this; you want to fix something in your app, so you open your AI editor. You typed your prompt and you wait, 30 second, 1 minute, 2 minute... And then you realized it's unusable due to an outage in your API provider. You tried to work it yourself, but suddenly you forgot how to do basic things. You went to Google to ask "how to do this", but you also forgot how to parse the information. 

I believe that with today's attention span went lower than ever, and AI dependency is higher than ever, those scenario couldn't be just treated as a hypothetical "What if?" scenario.

## Approach

Now what's the best approach for using AI? For me, I use 