+++
title = 'How Mie Gacoan Optimized Their Delivery, and What Programmers Could Learn From Them'
date = 2025-04-08T17:20:03+07:00
draft = true
tag = Tech
+++

## Preamble
Last week I went to Mie Gacoan, a popular Indonesian fast food chain with spicy noodle as their specialty. Usually I ordered them using delivery service, however that time I just thought to order dine-in at their location instead. 

While usually any other restaurant use the simple order-pay-wait-eat sequence, Mie Gacoan followed a... kinda convoluted flow. First few steps went like your usual dine-in ordering experience; you tell your order, and then you pay - nothing out of ordinary. But then, you got yourself a seating number put inside an alarm, so you have to sit at the assigned number chair. And after that, the flow started to be a bit more complex than your ole fast food chain. As a context, the orders in Mie Gacoan usually split into two categories; their noodles as their specialty (and the one ordered the most), and their sides and drinks. Now while the noodle is sent over by the waiters, the sides and drinks would be announced via the alarm, and you have to take it by yourself.

## Why Though?
After eating there and eventually dealing some damage to my intestine (and absolutely _not_ stumbling over the seating and delivery rules), it got me thinking; **why the convoluted ordering flow though?**, isn't it enough for Mie Gacoan to just do the conventional flow, and let the customer eating without adapting to a new and more complex flow? 

And then, I realized something; **Mie Gacoan used to be infamous of their delivery time**. I found [this Quora entry](https://id.quora.com/Apa-yang-membuat-antrean-Mie-gacoan-begitu-lama-Minimal-1-jam-untuk-bisa-menikmati-makanan-satu-porsi) that explain why the delivery is so slow. Also with the influx of virality it got, it would affect the order volumes as well, impacting the delivery time even worse. [(FYI, a single outlet could got more than **100 million rupiahs** in revenue daily)](https://kumparan.com/kumparanbisnis/pembeli-melonjak-omzet-mie-gacoan-bisa-melebihi-rp-100-juta-hari-20R1OFWK0jI/2)

And with that in mind, let's redive onto what's Mie Gacoan did, and what did it impact to their delivery time :
- **Why the separation of delivery between the noodles and the sides + drinks?** If you think about it, sides and drinks would need more time to prepare (for example, sides needs to be deep fried or steamed on demand), instead of the fast preparation of the noodle that can be just cooked en masse. So delivering the noodles while waiting for the sides and drinks would put the cooking process of the sides and drinks as a bottleneck.
- **Why they want us to pick up their sides instead of delivering it like the noodles?** While this seems like an unnecessary step for the customers that mostly crave for simplicity on their onboarding, this could be interpreted as an attempt to reduce the workers tasks, so they would be focused only on delivering noodles, instead of splitting their focus to also deliver sides. 
- **Why the assigned sitting?** At the first glance, this might be counterproductive as this would limit the customers (which mostly consists of groups that wanted to chill and chat) to pick their own sitting. But again, with the goal to reduce the waiting time, assigned sitting is way more faster than to let the customer pick their sitting, since the assigned sitting would ease the waiters to deliver their noodles.

## Spicy Taste, Sweet Wisdom
Now let's dive into the second part of the title; **what the hell does this spicy noodle business have to do with some nerds trying to do code?**

In fact, there are some cool wisdom hiding in plain sight that could helps us deliver better quality codes.
1. **Eager loading is not a silver bullet**
Sometimes there are some backend engineers that saw eager loading as a panacea that they could apply to every table relationships, especially after they heard about the spooky N+1 problem. However, there are some cases that the usage of eager loading could backfire, for example when the relationship took significantly longer time to fetch than the main data in the table.

In the Mie Gacoan case, this problem is solved by separating the main "data" (the noodle) and the "relationship" (the sides and the drinks), knowing that the sides and drinks would took longer than the noodle. This would be taken one step further by Mie Gacoan as they would use the 